functions (#8)
Ada-Developers-Academy/core-unit-3: functions/anonymous-functions.md

# Anonymous Functions

## Introduction

Yet another permutation of the function in the JavaScript language!

Anonymous functions are a useful way to define functions in the context they're used. This usage can be more readable sometimes, especially when it's more convenient to read a function's definition immediately over chase its definition, which may be in a different file.

## Syntax

> An anonymous function is a function created with any valid syntax, but it is not referenced by a variable.
> 
> Instead, an **anonymous function** is a function defined in the one place that it's used.
> 
> Technically, many of the methods in objects we created are anonymous functions!
> 
> <!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
> ```js
> const myTedTalk = {
>   title: 'Inspiration From Inspiring Things',
>   summary: 'A story about where inspiration comes from.',
>   summarize: function() {
>     return `${this.title}: ${this.summary}`;
>   }
> }
> 
> myTedTalk.summarize();
> ```
> <!-- prettier-ignore-end -->
> 
> We never _named_ the value of the `summarize` property, or referenced it in a variable. We defined the function in the one place where it's needed, anonymously!

Reviewer: Strongly suggest avoiding dragging in one-shot object functions here (I voiced my strong opposition to these being in the curriculum at all in methods in objects), but I do think we need to build up to what we mean by anonymous function, since it's not really clear from the typical syntax we'll be using to create functions whether they have a name, or what effect that has (spoilers, no effect). What we're calling anonymous functions are really  (dun dun duuun) one-shot functions/lambda/closures/some combination of function buzzwords. I can get on board with calling them anonymous functions, but in that case, we especially need to give some development to get from the intuitive meaning of the word anonymous to what we actually care about for the lesson.

Also included a callout tying these functions back to callback functions.

So I would replace this content with the markdown in the following comment.
This suggestion just has the removal of this content.
Could not use a suggestion for the new content due to code snippets.

```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Technically, any arrow function or function expression _could_ be considered an anonymous function. In either situation, we are creating a function, a reference to which is stored in a variable.

Even though the expression does not include a name as part of the function definition, the JavaScript runtime recognizes the pattern of assigning these functions to a variable and will take the variable name as the _implicit_ name of the function object.

Consider these examples:

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```js
function nameChecker(fn) {
  console.log(fn.name);  
}

// arrow function
const myfn = () => 0;
nameChecker(myfn);  // myfn

// function expression
const yourfn = function() { return 0; };
nameChecker(yourfn);  // yourfn

// and for completeness...
nameChecker(nameChecker);  // nameChecker
```
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

But what about this?

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```js
function nameChecker(fn) {
  console.log(fn.name);  
}

nameChecker(() => 0);  // blank!
nameChecker(function() { return 0; });  // also blank!
```
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

This time, the functions have empty names. More over, while these functions can be accessed inside the function into which they were passed, once that function returns we no longer have any reference to that function! Each function was created exactly where it was intended to be used, and afterwards it effectively disappears!

An **anonymous function** is a function created with any valid syntax, defined in the one place that it's used.

### !callout-info

## A Function Is a Function Is a Function

Whether or not a function has a name, or gets stored in a variable for later use, a function is still a function. There's nothing special about passing an anonymous function as a callback. Anywhere that we pass an anonymous function that we create right when we need, we could pass a named function that we created elsewhere.

<br />

As we will see, using an anonymous function, a function we created right where we needed it, can simply be more convenient.

### !end-callout

Author: I'm into the direction of this, I'm inclined to simplify it more. Also, I think that this section should still start with a strong definition of "anonymous functions"

---

An **anonymous function** is a function created with any valid syntax, defined in the one place that it's used.

Every function has a property named `name`, which holds the name of the function. We can access it through dot notation. For example, we can create a function named `helloWorldFn`:

```js
const helloWorldFn = function() {
    console.log('hello world!');
}
```

When we print this function's `name`, we'll get `helloWorldFn` back.

```js
console.log('the name of the function helloWorldFn is:', helloWorldFn.name);
```

Output:

```
the name of the function helloWorldFn is: helloWorldFn
```

An anonymous function is defined in the one place that it's used. These functions do not have a defined `name` property.

For example, let's print the `name` of an anonymous function in the one place it's used:

```js
console.log('The name of this anonymous function is blank!:', (() => 0).name);
```

Here, our one-line arrow function `() => 0` returns zero. We wrapped it with parentheses `()` and then accessed its `name` property. We get this output:

```
The name of this anonymous function is blank!:
```

Each function was created exactly where it was intended to be used, and afterwards it effectively disappears!

### !callout-info

## A Function Is a Function Is a Function

Whether or not a function has a name, or gets stored in a variable for later use, a function is still a function. There's nothing special about passing an anonymous function as a callback. Anywhere that we pass an anonymous function that we create right when we need, we could pass a named function that we created elsewhere.

<br />

As we will see, using an anonymous function, a function we created right where we needed it, can simply be more convenient.

### !end-callout

## Uses for Anonymous Functions: `forEach` Loops

> An anonymous function is useful when create for-each loops.
> 
> The `forEach` loop in JavaScript is a function that operates off of a collection (like an array). It takes in one argument: a **function**.
> 
> _The passed-in function_ takes in one argument, which represents one item from the collection.

Reviewer: Let's be honest. `forEach` is awful and should be minimized. It's a convenient place to start talking about anonymous functions, but I'd still like to include some verbiage to subtly indicate that this isn't necessarily (or ever! 😆 ) the best way to do this.

Also, `forEach` is an array function. If we want the flexibility of other collections, that's a case for using a for/in or for/of loop.

```suggestion
An anonymous function is useful to create a certain kind of for-each loop.

The `forEach` method in JavaScript is defined on arrays. It takes in one argument: a **function**.

_The passed-in function_ also takes in one argument, which represents one item from the collection.
```

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```js
const myArray = ['red', 'yellow', 'blue'];

> myArray.forEach( item => {

Reviewer: stray space
```suggestion
myArray.forEach(item => {
```

  console.log('Inside this anonymous function, each item of myArray will be accessed as item:', item);
});
```
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

| <div style="min-width:200px;"> Piece of Code </div> | Notes                                                                                                                                    |
| --------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `const myArray = [...];`                            | Here we create an array, `myArray`.                                                                                                      |

> | `myArray.forEach(...);`                             | To iterate over each element in `myArray`, we call the `forEach` function off `myArray`.                                                 |

Reviewer: off → of
```suggestion
| `myArray.forEach(...);`                             | To iterate over each element in `myArray`, we call the `forEach` function of `myArray`.                                                 |
```

| `item => { ... }`                                   | The `forEach` function takes in one argument: another function! This anonymous function is using arrow function syntax.                  |
| `item`                                              | The anonymous function we pass into `forEach` should take in one argument itself. This argument will always represent the iterated item. |
| `console.log(..., item);`                           | In the function body, we can access the value of `item` and read it!                                                                     |

Anonymous functions can be arrow functions or non-arrow functions! Whether we use an arrow function or non-arrow function depends on the context of the problem, and which form of `this` we need.

> 

Reviewer: I think it's pretty safe to make the recommendation that arrow functions should generally be our go to for anonymous functions.

Add a callout that talks about some of the strangeness of `forEach` and point the reader at for/of as something to research. Editorial, but I think reasonable.

```suggestion

More often than not, our first instinct for creating anonymous functions should be to use arrow functions.

### !callout-info

## Many Ways to Iterate

JavaScript could be said to have _too many_ ways to iterate over arrays. In general, `forEach` is the _least flexible_ way of iterating over an array. As an example, notice that there is no way to stop iterating early if we were looking for a particular value in the array. `forEach` should only be used when we know that we need to apply the supplied function operations to _every_ item in the array.

<br />

Even then, one of JavaScript's several `for` loop styles, especially the `for`/`of` loop may give us iteration behavior more like we might be used to in other languages. Follow your curiosity!

### !end-callout

```

### Example: Iterating Through Tips

Let's look at another example! Here, we have an array of cash tips, `cashTips`. We want to find the average cash tip. We will create a `sum` variable. Then, we'll iterate through `cashTips`. For each tip in the array, we'll increment `sum`. Then we'll calculate the average cash tip.

```javascript
const cashTips = [4, 7, 9, 12, 3, 18, 6];
let sum = 0;

cashTips.forEach((tip) => {
  sum += tip;
});

const average = sum / cashTips.length;
console.log(`The average cash tip is ${average}`);
```

To create the loop, we call `cashTips.forEach()`. The `forEach` function takes in one argument: another function.

Here, we pass in an anonymous function:

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```js
tip => {
  sum += tip;
}
```
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

> This function takes in one argument, `tip`. Our `forEach` function will use this anonymous function, and each `tip` will be each item in `cashTips`. Inside our anonymous function, we increment `sum` by `tip`.

Reviewer: adjust the verbiage around how the value of tip changes
```suggestion
This function takes in one argument, `tip`. Our `forEach` function will use this anonymous function, and as the iteration runs, `tip` will be set to each item in `cashTips`. Inside our anonymous function, we increment `sum` by `tip`.
```

### Anonymous Functions in Context

This is a great example of an anonymous function because:

- The logic of this function isn't reused anywhere
- The function is more readable in the context of the `forEach` loop than outside it

> 

Reviewer: include a callout hinting at closures and how anonymous functions (our definition) can use values from the enclosing scope
```suggestion

### !callout-info

## The Curious Case of `sum`

Was it surprising that we could access `sum` from within our anonymous function? Here, we can explain our ability to see `sum` because `sum` has global scope. However, due to a language feature called _closure binding_, even if `sum` had been a local variable in some local scope, it would _still_ have been accessible in our anonymous function!

<br />

This is another benefit of using an anonymous function defined here rather than a named function defined elsewhere. A function defined elsewhere wouldn't have access to the variables in the local scope around the `forEach` call. But our anonymous function does!

### !end-callout

```

Author: I think I'd like the title of this to feel a little more "aside-y" and also name "Closure Binding"

```suggestion

### !callout-info

## JavaScript Details: `sum` and Closure Binding

Was it surprising that we could access `sum` from within our anonymous function? Here, we can explain our ability to see `sum` because `sum` has global scope. However, due to a language feature called _closure binding_, even if `sum` had been a local variable in some local scope, it would _still_ have been accessible in our anonymous function!

<br />

This is another benefit of using an anonymous function defined here rather than a named function defined elsewhere. A function defined elsewhere wouldn't have access to the variables in the local scope around the `forEach` call. But our anonymous function does!

### !end-callout

```

## Uses for Anonymous Functions: `map`

Another great use of anonymous functions is with the `map` function.

> The responsibility of `map` is to look at an array, and create another array whose items are transformed, or _mapped_, from the original array.
> 
> For example, imagine that we're working with an API to look at our social media users. We get back an array of user IDs, but each ID in this array is a string. We need to convert these strings into numbers in order for us to use them!

Reviewer: adjust the language around how map processes an array
there's no intrinsic reason why we need to convert the ids to ints, so add the assumption statement to preemptively avoid that distraction

```suggestion
The responsibility of `map` is to loop through an array, and create another array whose items are transformed, or _mapped_, from the original array.

For example, imagine that we're working with an API to look at our social media users. We get back an array of user IDs, but each ID in this array is a string. Let's assume that we need to convert these strings into numbers in order for us to use them!
```

Observe how we can use the `map` function to achieve our goal:

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```js
const userIds = ['401', '403', '404', '500', '518'];

const parsedUserIds = userIds.map(userId => {
  return parseInt(userId);
});

console.log(parsedUserIds);
```
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

Our output shows that `parsedUserIds` is indeed an array of numbers:

```
[ 401, 403, 404, 500, 518 ]
```

> | <div style="min-width:200px;"> Piece of Code </div> | Notes                                                                                                                                                                      |

Reviewer: adjust width for formatting
```suggestion
| <div style="min-width:220px;"> Piece of Code </div> | Notes                                                                                                                                                                      |
```

| --------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `const parsedUserIds =`                             | The `map` function on the right-hand side of the `=` will eventually evaluate to become an array. We want to store that array in a `const` variable named `parsedUserIds`. |

Reviewer: become is unnecessary
```suggestion
| `const parsedUserIds =`                             | The `map` function on the right-hand side of the `=` will eventually evaluate to an array. We want to store that array in a `const` variable named `parsedUserIds`. |
```

| `userIds.map( ... );`                               | Just like `forEach`, we want to call the `map` function on our array, `userIds`.                                                                                           |
| `userId => { ... }`                                 | `map` takes in a function. Here is an anonymous arrow function with one parameter, `userId`. `userId` will refer to each item in `userIds` as `map` goes through it.       |
| `return`                                            | **Unlike** the `forEach` loop, **this function must `return` the value that we want** in our new array.                                                                    |

### `forEach` vs. `map`

> The `forEach` function is useful when we want to execute an identical action for each item. `map` is useful when we want a result array that is the same length of the original array, and each item in the result array is based on a parallel item in the original array.

Reviewer: same ~of~as
add a note about what we mean by parallel item
```suggestion
The `forEach` function is useful when we want to execute an identical action for each item. `map` is useful when we want a result array that is the same length as the original array, and each item in the result array is based on the parallel item (the item in the same position) in the original array.
```

## Uses for Anonymous Functions: `reduce`

> Let's look at one more useful function, `reduce`. This function has similarities to `forEach` and `map`, but this time we'll practice using the vocabulary _callback function_.

Reviewer: callback is literally never mentioned again in this lesson 😆 
```suggestion
Let's look at one more useful function, `reduce`. This function has similarities to both `forEach` and `map`, but has a significant difference.
```

The responsibility of `reduce` is to look through an array and apply some operation to eventually _reduce_ the array into _one value_.

Let's return to our code that calculated our average cash tip, but let's focus on how we get the _sum_ of our tips.

```javascript
const cashTips = [4, 7, 9, 12, 3, 18, 6];
let sum = 0;

cashTips.forEach((tip) => {
  sum += tip;
});
```

Our current logic for getting the sum of all tips is:

1. Initialize a `sum` variable at `0`
1. Iterate through each `tip` in `cashTips`
1. Increment `sum` by `tip`

> Essentially, we're _reducing_ our `cashTips` array into _one value_. This is a great time to refactor!
> 
> The `reduce` function takes in a function. _This_ function takes in _two_ arguments:
> 
> 1. An argument to represent the accumulated value. This will replace our `sum` variable.
> 1. One `item` from our array.

Reviewer: saying it's a great chance to me somehow sounds more grounded in the situation just described. great time sounds like a general observation.
mention that `reduce` does have an optional second param (possibly worth going more into, as it can protect us from empty lists)
I later suggest using sum rather than ultimateTotal, which then it sound weird to say we replace the sum variable here.

```suggestion
Essentially, we're _reducing_ our `cashTips` array into _one value_. This is a great chance to refactor!

The `reduce` function takes in a function (and an optional starting value). _This_ function takes in _two_ arguments:

1. An argument to represent the accumulated value. This will let us avoid updating the `sum` variable each time through our loop.
1. One `item` from our array.
```

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```js
const cashTips = [4, 7, 9, 12, 3, 18, 6];

> let sum = 0;
> 
> const ultimateTotal = cashTips.reduce((total, tip) => {

Reviewer: get rid of the stand-alone sum var
use sum as the result of reduce to better parallel the forEach solution
```suggestion

const sum = cashTips.reduce((total, tip) => {
```

  return total + tip;
});
```
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

| <div style="min-width:200px;"> Piece of Code </div> | Notes                                                                                                                                                    |
| --------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `const ultimateTotal =`                             | The `reduce` function on the right-hand side of the `=` will become one value. Let's keep that single value in a `const` variable named `ultimateTotal`. |

Reviewer: use sum for the variable
the function doesn't _become_ one value, it _evaluates_ to one value
```suggestion
| `const sum =`                             | The `reduce` function on the right-hand side of the `=` will evaluate to one value. Let's keep that single value in a `const` variable named `sum`. |
```

| `cashTips.reduce( ... );`                           | Just like `forEach`, we want to call the `reduce` function on our array, `cashTips`.                                                                     |
| `((...) => { ... });`                               | `reduce` takes in a function. Here we pass in an anonymous arrow function!                                                                               |
| `total`                                             | The first parameter for this function, `total`, will hold the running value that carries over between the iterated `tip`s.                               |
| `tip`                                               | The second parameter that will reference an item in `cashTips` one at a time.                                                                            |

> | `return total + tip;`                               | **Unlike** the `forEach` loop, **this function must `return` the running value that we want to accumulate** for our `ultimateTotal`.                     |

Reviewer: use sum
```suggestion
| `return total + tip;`                               | **Unlike** the `forEach` loop, **this function must `return` the running value that we want to accumulate** for our `sum`.                     |
```

In the context of our greater problem, finding the average, our code will look like this:

```javascript
const cashTips = [4, 7, 9, 12, 3, 18, 6];

> const ultimateTotal = cashTips.reduce((total, tip) => {
>   return total + tip;
> });
> 
> const average = ultimateTotal / cashTips.length;

Reviewer: use sum
```suggestion
const sum = cashTips.reduce((total, tip) => {
  return total + tip;
});

const average = sum / cashTips.length;
```
